Or it continuing on from the last period, we're going to mix and match generic method type parameters,
a generic class type perimeter's, we need a new class for that.
And we're going to place that into this existing source for.
Well, I study this class for a moment.
So basically, it's a generic class with generic methods, the class, the class to type parameters,
personality with an upper bound using the interface comparable meaning it can only be instantiated with
a type that implements comparable and also you which accepts any type.
Scotter instance variables went ahead with a parameter type you to be defined.
When the instance is created, the one declares top no.
So I got a constructor there.
Line ninety six.
Now the constructor is a generic method which declares one parameter type with an upper bound of no
meaning.
Only a number or a subtype of no can be used for this constructor argument.
The first constructor argument uses one of the class type parameters.
You.
Scroll down a bit further.
We've got this public generic instance method on line 111, so this method declares two parameter types.
We've got X, which is unbounded and W that has an upper bound of list with X in angle brackets.
So what does that mean?
But we're declaring a relationship between our two method perimeter types, indicating that whatever
type X is declared as the least represented by the W type must be a list of X..
In addition, the method uses two of the class parameters, T.
S method parameters.
Remember that the class is declared that T must implement comparable.
Appear online so we can use comparables, compare to method on the method arguments of Type T, then
the method returns a value of type X type, which the list elements all are required to be well.
So let's open some code to the main method of the generics comparison class.
It'll come back up and do that.
That's the kind of up here.
President Obama, the mind method, OK, there it is, not a scroll up a bit, so I'm starting by creating
two strings, bearing in mind that string implements comparable and then creating an instance of the
combined class with type string for tea and byte for you.
And then I call the constructor passing a bite for you and an integer for method type V.
Now that we've created it, I'm invoking the generic method.
Get comparison results online only for passing the two strings as well as a list of strings, effectively
noting here that x the parameter type is inferred to be a string and the W parameter top is the third
to be a list of strings effectively taken that relates back to the K that we pasted in here.
Adlard one twenty results from that.
And again, this was the code that was being invoked.
Now that you've done that, let's try another set of top arguments.
What are we going to do is a pencil code to the main method.
It's going to sit it down here below.
Now, what I'm doing here is I'm creating an instance of the combined class with types, integer for
T, string for you, and I'm calling the constructor notat and passing the constructor string that represents
you and a bite.
This represents the constructor's type parameter V.
I've got a couple of very local variables, the finding there and then invoking the generic method comparison
results this time when they're comparing integers, I won and I to run this code.
And you could see the result, so this example, I hope you've seen the generics allow you to design
typing specifications into your class using a combination of generic class type parameters with generic
methods, which also permit you to apply some type relationship rules.
I think he can also say that it quickly gets confusing looking at code like this.
Which the exam questions are certain to exploit.
I'll be discussing additional examples in the video on out of ordinary items in this section.
But first, though, let's ask when and why would you create just a generic method, a demonstrated
one example?
Well, we wanted the list past to our method to be the least of the same type as the return type of
the method.
Let's look at another example.
If you're familiar with the term you are comparing apples with oranges, then you might appreciate the
generic methods are a way of preventing the comparison of apples with oranges.
So let's consider the calm about to adhere to a new class for this because new one generic methods.
What I can see here, firstly, we've got a Apple class and an orange class, which both implement the
comparable interface using using generics for the specific type apple and orange, the scrolling further.
We've got another class here, green apple that extends Apple but doesn't directly implement the comparable
interface.
Also the generic methods class.
We've got to compare object's method that accepts two parameters of any type that both objects, as
you can see a lot.
Forty four include some limited type checking code.
If both objects implement comparable I pair comparables, which is the method following below.
And I note that the comment on line forty six is not extensible or easily maintainable the way you've
written this custom type checking.
So our compare comparables method that I talked about, it's a method to compare any object implemented
comparable excepting two parameters of any type that implement comparable.
They've got some more top checking here.
I'm assuming it's the first object is one type that the second is the same type.
But as you can say, within returning a call to compare to for the relevant type of this other method
here, compare matching types.
This is a generic method that expands on the previous method, but enforces by specifying method type
parameters that the two parameters must have a matching type within their class.
Hierarchy is obviously the code is a lot shorter, but also forces that the two parameters must have
the matching type within their class hierarchy by specifying the method top parameters they can see
the method there has got various calls to those various methods.
So let's run the code.
All right, let's put some more code into my method so you can see we're trying to do, you know, compile
time that you cannot compare apples and oranges, but still you try.
So let's actually try doing that apples.
Fine.
If you run the code.
The Karak runtime error.
So we can expect to compare comparables will encounter the same exception since the exception was thrown
after invoking this method from compare objects on their.
As possible, cut into our mind, MyFord.
And the bottom actually will replace that because we know that it crushes.
And you can see they're trying to compare apples to oranges.
We've got a compiler error, which is actually a better outcome than a runtime error.
And that's because we don't even allow the attempt to compare two disparate types to occur.
And you can see that specifically saying require a top apple provider with orange.
We're back to a code we had that works.
The best description of Fair went to use generic methods is tucked into a middle of a Java tutorial.
There's a link on screen on generic methods if we swing over to it now to show you the page of the browser
quickly, that's the link.
And it's in the resources sector.
If you want to go and have a look at that.
Back to the slides, so basically this page talks about the fact that generic methods allow tight parameters
to be used to express dependencies among the types of one or more arguments to a method and or its return
type.
If there isn't such a dependency, the generic method should not be used as a standard.
Another way, if you want to enforce a relationship between the types of method arguments or a method
argument to which return type is a generic method to enforce the relationship, otherwise do not use
them.
They introduce complexity to the code that may not be warranted otherwise.
So the examples that we've just reviewed have demonstrated that the parameters pass to the method had
a relationship with each other because I desired them to be the same type or subclass of the time I
was able to allow extending the method to any comparable type, but in force a relationship between
the parameters with no additional code and with compiler time checking.
That's a win all the way around.
So in review, you can create generic methods on both generic and non generic classes, a generic methods
declared type parameters are only in scope for the method.
Generic method can use a combination of its declared type parameters or if the class is generic.
Also, it's classes type parameters.
A generic method can be static or not static, and a constructor can also be a generic method.
And you can use a generic method when you want to establish a relationship between types which the method
uses as arguments or with the type of the returned object or what.
So in the next video, I want to talk about generics used with wild card tarping.
So let's move on.